Metal
Metal sample code library
Metal sample code library
Explore the complete set of Metal samples.
Overview

Browse the topics below to find samples relevant to a concept you want to learn more about, starting with the basic computation and render workflows. The samples in the lighting and multiple technique sections demonstrate how to take advantage of the unique GPU architecture of Apple silicon.

Topics
Compute workflows
Performing calculations on a GPU
Use Metal to find GPUs and perform calculations on them.
Selecting device objects for compute processing
Switch dynamically between multiple GPUs to efficiently execute a compute-intensive simulation.
Customizing a TensorFlow operation
Implement a custom operation that uses Metal kernels to accelerate neural-network training performance.
Customizing a PyTorch operation
Implement a custom operation in PyTorch that uses Metal kernels to improve performance.
Machine learning workflows
Running a machine learning model on the GPU timeline
Dispatch model inference commands with a machine learning pass in a Metal 4 command buffer.
Running inline ML operations in a shader with Metal 4
Multiply matrices across multiple GPU cores with inline tensor operations.
Render workflows
Using Metal to draw a view’s contents
Create a MetalKit view and a render pass to draw the view’s contents.
Drawing a triangle with Metal 4
Render a colorful, rotating 2D triangle by running draw commands with a render pipeline on a GPU.
Selecting device objects for graphics rendering
Switch dynamically between multiple GPUs to efficiently render to a display.
Customizing render pass setup
Render into an offscreen texture by creating a custom render pass.
Creating a custom Metal view
Implement a lightweight view for Metal rendering that’s customized to your app’s needs.
Calculating primitive visibility using depth testing
Determine which pixels are visible in a scene by using a depth texture.
Encoding indirect command buffers on the CPU
Reduce CPU overhead and simplify your command execution by reusing commands.
Implementing order-independent transparency with image blocks
Draw overlapping, transparent surfaces in any order by using tile shaders and image blocks.
Loading textures and models using Metal fast resource loading
Stream texture and buffer data directly from disk into Metal resources using fast resource loading.
Adjusting the level of detail using Metal mesh shaders
Choose and render meshes with several levels of detail using object and mesh shaders.
Creating a 3D application with hydra rendering
Build a 3D application that integrates with Hydra and USD.
Culling occluded geometry using the visibility result buffer
Draw a scene without rendering hidden geometry by checking whether each object in the scene is visible.
Improving edge-rendering quality with multisample antialiasing (MSAA)
Apply MSAA to enhance the rendering of edges with custom resolve options and immediate and tile-based resolve paths.
Achieving smooth frame rates with a Metal display link
Pace rendering with minimal input latency while providing essential information to the operating system for power-efficient rendering, thermal mitigation, and the scheduling of sustainable workloads.
Textures
Combining blit and compute operations in a single pass
Run concurrent blit commands and then a compute dispatch in a single pass with a unified compute encoder.
Reading pixel data from a drawable texture
Access texture data from the CPU by copying it to a buffer.
Creating and sampling textures
Load image data into a texture and apply it to a quadrangle.
Streaming large images with Metal sparse textures
Limit texture memory usage for large textures by loading or unloading image detail on the basis of MIP and tile region.
Argument buffers
Managing groups of resources with argument buffers
Create argument buffers to organize related resources.
Using argument buffers with resource heaps
Reduce CPU overhead by using arrays inside argument buffers and combining them with resource heaps.
Encoding argument buffers on the GPU
Use a compute pass to encode an argument buffer and access its arguments in a subsequent render pass.
Rendering terrain dynamically with argument buffers
Use argument buffers to render terrain in real time with a GPU-driven pipeline.
Shaders
Creating a Metal dynamic library
Compile a library of shaders and write it to a file as a dynamically linked library.
Using function specialization to build pipeline variants
Create pipelines for different levels of detail from a common shader source.
Synchronization
Synchronizing CPU and GPU work
Avoid stalls between CPU and GPU work by using multiple instances of a resource.
Implementing a multistage image filter using heaps and events
Use events to synchronize access to resources allocated on a heap.
Implementing a multistage image filter using heaps and fences
Use fences to synchronize access to resources allocated on a heap.
Lighting techniques
Rendering a scene with forward plus lighting using tile shaders
Implement a forward plus renderer using the latest features on Apple GPUs.
Rendering a scene with deferred lighting in Objective-C
Avoid expensive lighting calculations by implementing a deferred lighting renderer optimized for immediate mode and tile-based deferred renderer GPUs.
Rendering a scene with deferred lighting in Swift
Avoid expensive lighting calculations by implementing a deferred lighting renderer optimized for immediate mode and tile-based deferred renderer GPUs.
Rendering a scene with deferred lighting in C++
Avoid expensive lighting calculations by implementing a deferred lighting renderer optimized for immediate mode and tile-based deferred renderer GPUs.
Rendering reflections with fewer render passes
Use layer selection to reduce the number of render passes needed to generate an environment map.
Multiple techniques
Modern rendering with Metal
Use advanced Metal features such as indirect command buffers, sparse textures, and variable rate rasterization to implement complex rendering techniques.
Encoding indirect command buffers on the GPU
Maximize CPU to GPU parallelization by generating render commands on the GPU.
Ray tracing
Rendering reflections in real time using ray tracing
Implement realistic real-time lighting by dynamically generating reflection maps by encoding a ray-tracing compute pass.
Accelerating ray tracing using Metal
Implement ray-traced rendering using GPU-based parallel processing.
Control the ray tracing process using intersection queries
Explicitly enumerate a ray’s intersections with acceleration structures by creating an intersection query object.
Accelerating ray tracing and motion blur using Metal
Generate ray-traced images with motion blur using GPU-based parallel processing.
Rendering a curve primitive in a ray tracing scene
Implement ray traced rendering using GPU-based parallel processing.
HDR
Processing HDR images with Metal
Implement a post-processing pipeline using the latest features on Apple GPUs.
OpenGL
Migrating OpenGL code to Metal
Replace your app’s deprecated OpenGL code with Metal.
Mixing Metal and OpenGL rendering in a view
Draw with Metal and OpenGL in the same view using an interoperable texture.
Current page is Metal sample code library
